Installation
------------

Follow the official Dortania installation guide to [make bootable macOS USB installer](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/installer-guide/). After creating USB installer mount its EFI partition and copy [OpenCore files]() from [releases page](). Replace `config.plist` with [config-usb.plist](/EFI/OC/config.plist) directly from this repository. It‘s a configuration variant modified specifically to run macOS installer. (Rename it to `config.plist`.) It disables some kexts which are useless during installation (Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, SD card reader, etc.), doesn’t modify SIP flags, enables verbose boot (kernel text messages) so you can troubleshoot boot issues, and has a different SMBIOS Mac model which allows to install more recent macOS versions (up to Monterey).

### Resetting Power Management

Unless your ProBook already comes with Core i7-2640M, like mine, you need to disable CPU power management for your very first setup. This step is required for legacy Intel CPUs such as used in Ivy Bridge ProBooks and earlier.

  * Open `config.plist` copied to EFI partition on a USB drive. Disable the included `SSDT-PM.aml` SSDT table (`ACPI/Add`, set `Enabled` to `false`):

    ```xml
          <dict>
            <key>Comment</key>
            <string>Core i7-2640M power management</string>
            <key>Enabled</key>
            <false/>
            <key>Path</key>
            <string>SSDT-PM.aml</string>
          </dict>
    ```

  * Drop OEM CPU tables (`ACPI/Delete`, `Enabled` -> `true`):

    ```xml
          <key>Delete</key>
          <array>
            <dict>
              <key>All</key>
              <false/>
              <key>Comment</key>
              <string>Delete CpuPm</string>
              <key>Enabled</key>
              <true/>
              <key>OemTableId</key>
              <data>Q3B1UG0AAAA=</data>
              <key>TableLength</key>
              <integer>0</integer>
              <key>TableSignature</key>
              <data>U1NEVA==</data>
            </dict>
            <dict>
              <key>All</key>
              <false/>
              <key>Comment</key>
              <string>Delete Cpu0Ist</string>
              <key>Enabled</key>
              <true/>
              <key>OemTableId</key>
              <data>Q3B1MElzdAA=</data>
              <key>TableLength</key>
              <integer>0</integer>
              <key>TableSignature</key>
              <data>U1NEVA==</data>
            </dict>
          </array>
    ```

  * Enable `NullCPUPowerManagement.kext` (`Kernel/Add`, `Enabled` -> `true`):

    ```xml
          <dict>
            <key>Arch</key>
            <string>Any</string>
            <key>BundlePath</key>
            <string>NullCPUPowerManagement.kext</string>
            <key>Comment</key>
            <string>NullCPUPowerManagement.kext</string>
            <key>Enabled</key>
            <true/>
            <key>ExecutablePath</key>
            <string>Contents/MacOS/NullCPUPowerManagement</string>
            <key>MaxKernel</key>
            <string></string>
            <key>MinKernel</key>
            <string></string>
            <key>PlistPath</key>
            <string>Contents/Info.plist</string>
          </dict>
    ```

### What macOS Version to Install

A few notes on what macOS to choose for installation. Typically, the recommended macOS version to install is Big Sur. It is modern enough for everyday use and has decent software support, including modern browser (I recommend Firefox).

Mojave and everything older is *not recommended* due to being way too outdated and having no modern browser support making it difficult just to get on the Internet. Catalina and Mojave also aren‘t supported well by OpenCore Legacy Patcher (OCLP), which is required to restore legacy HD 3000 graphics acceleration.

However, if you managed to find and swapped in a compatible Broadcom Wi-Fi card, you can bump installed macOS version to Monterey. The caveat is that support for Bluetooth on these cards (any compatible card you can install in this laptop) on Monterey is sketchy at best: Airdrop, Handoff, and certain Continuity features might not work at all, would work but with issues, or only in one direction (from iPhone to ProBook, but not the other way around).

### Installing macOS Ventura

macOS Ventura requires a CPU with AVX2 instructions which all Sandy Bridge and Ivy Bridge CPUs lack. (AVX2 becomes available since Haswell.) Thus, Monterey is the final version of macOS you can *technically* install on this laptop.

Using [CryptexFixup](https://github.com/acidanthera/CryptexFixup) kext, which enables sort of AVX2 emulation, it is possible to install macOS Ventura (and even later macOS, all the way up to Sequoia). However, this isn‘t supported by this guide and is *not recommended*. macOS past Monterey increasingly rely high on Metal API in various places and bundled applications, and using non-metal GPU can be a real pain on such system. Also keep in mind that pretty much any third-party app designed to run on Ventura would expect AVX2 to be available and likely to experience random crashes due to lack thereof.

So this, in my opinion, remains an option only for maniacs willing to accomplish just this task of “successfully” running Ventura on an unsupported Sandy Bridge system, – for bragging rights.

Anyway, reboot your ProBook from created USB. During setup the machine will restart several times and if everything goes well (and it should) you will end up on macOS post-install welcome screen. To finish setup we need to copy OpenCore files to your system EFI partition and fix power management. This time, however, keep the `config.plist` from [downloads](), not `config-usb.plist`. The next step requires you to have working internet connection so hook your laptop up with ethernet cable because Wi-Fi is not available yet.

Once installation is complete proceed to next step, which is [ACPI patching](3.\ ACPI\ Patching.md).
