Post-install
------------

Unless you opted to install very old macOS version for some reason, e.g. High Sierra, you’d be stuck without hardware graphics acceleration and, as a result, very slow and unusable user interface. This and other stuff, like Wi-Fi, is fixed in this step.

### Quick Note on APFS

OpenCore from the provided EFI folder will load any APFS driver available. This is done to make initial setup easier in case of multiple macOS installations (e.g. High Sierra together with Big Sur). For security reasons, it is recommeded that after installation you would [change](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Install-Guide/config-laptop.plist/sandy-bridge.html#apfs) the minimum allowed APFS driver version according to the latest macOS version you have installed. For Big Sur and above, leave both `MinVersion` and `MinDate` at `0`.

### Disabling SIP and AMFI

Due to extensive modifications required to support this laptop on modern macOS it is better to disable both SIP and AMFI right away (`NVRAM/Add/7C436110-AB2A-4BBB-A880-FE41995C9F82`):

```xml
        <key>csr-active-config</key>
        <data>AwgAAA==</data>
```

(The configured value is `0x803`.)

AMFI is disabled via `boot-args`:

```xml
        <key>boot-args</key>
        <string>... amfi=0x80 amfi_get_out_of_my_way=1 ...</string>
```

These modifications are already done in provided `config.plist`. I’m just making it obvious here.

### Restoring Graphics Acceleration

One of the first [post-installation](https://dortania.github.io/OpenCore-Post-Install/ "Post-installation guide") tasks you will have to perform, unless you decided to stay on High Sierra, is restoring graphics acceleration along with native desktop resolution.

Intel HD 3000 doesn‘t support Metal graphics acceleration API used by macOS since El Capitan. And since Mojave, HD 3000 itself isn‘t supported at all: you need to use [OpenCore Legacy Patcher](https://github.com/dortania/OpenCore-Legacy-Patcher "OCLP") to install patched kexts that restore graphics acceleration and work-around lack of Metal requirement.

Reboot without USB installer (this is important because USB config doesn’t use proper SMBIOS model and doesn’t disable SIP and AMFI required for patcher to work), download the patcher and allow it to install root patches. Reboot one more time and you should be greeted by a proper desktop in glorious native resolution.

Note that patcher only enables macOS graphical interface to function properly (mostly). Applications, such as iWork suite or Microsoft Office, that *do* use Metal cannot be worked around but can be replaced with their older non-Metal versions. Usually they work on Big Sur and Monterey just fine.

There’s additional [information about Intel HD 3000 graphics](6.\ HD\ 3000\ Issues.md) that you need to be aware of.

### Fixing Blur Effects in Big Sur and Monterey

In Big Sur transparent effects, such as blur, render incorrectly on non-Metal GPUs (HD 3000 is not capable of Metal API). After installing [patched graphics kexts](#restoring-graphics-acceleration) with OCLP it becomes possible to fall back to legacy blur drawing method:

```bash
defaults write -g Moraea_BlurBeta -bool true
```

You might also experiment with different blur strength, style of dark window borders, and dark menu bar text:

```bash
defaults write -g ASB_BlurOverride -float 30
defaults write -g Moraea_RimBeta -bool true
defaults write -g Moraea_DarkMenuBar -bool true
```

In Monterey you can get noticeable performance improvement by enabling reduced transparency mode in Accessibility settings. (This mode is broken on Big Sur with patched kexts, unfortunately, rendering the menu bar unusable.) With this on, you can now selectively re-enable transparency and blur only for the Dock:

```bash
defaults write com.apple.dock Moraea_EnableTransparency 1
```

Log out and back in to apply the changes. Some of these [commands](https://moraea.github.io/Docs/defaults.html), like `Moraea_EnableTransparency`, require a reboot to be applied.

### Enabling Wi-Fi and Bluetooth

By default Atheros wireless is already configured in `config.plist`. You can verify that the following kexts are enabled: `IOath3kfrmwr.kext`, `Legacy/IOath3kfrmwr.kext`, `IOath3kdevice.kext`, `HS80211Family.kext`, `AirPortAtheros40.kext`, `ProBookAtheros.kext`, and `WifiLocFix.kext` (`Enabled` -> `true`). For example:

```xml
      <dict>
        <key>Arch</key>
        <string>Any</string>
        <key>BundlePath</key>
        <string>AirPortAtheros40.kext</string>
        <key>Comment</key>
        <string>AirPortAtheros40.kext</string>
        <key>Enabled</key>
        <true/>
        <key>ExecutablePath</key>
        <string>Contents/MacOS/AirPortAtheros40</string>
        <key>MaxKernel</key>
        <string>20.9.9</string>
        <key>MinKernel</key>
        <string>18.0.0</string>
        <key>PlistPath</key>
        <string>Contents/Info.plist</string>
      </dict>
```

Open `WifiLocFix.kext/Contents/Info.plist` in a plain text editor and change the country code (`US`) and locale (`FCC` or `ETSI` for Europe):

```xml
      <dict>
        <key>IO80211CountryCode</key>
        <string>US</string>
        <key>IO80211Locale</key>
        <string>FCC</string>
      </dict>
```

For Broadcom wireless head over to [separate section](5.\ Broadcom\ Wireless.md).

### Configuring Trackpad

Since your laptop battery is probably long dead, macOS would not recognize it. And without a recognized battery modern versions of macOS also prevent changing trackpad settings (go figure).

In reality the trackpad is fully working, – you just can’t access its settings. In order to configure it you would have to manually edit the binary `.plist` file at `~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist`.

Copy it to your desktop and convert it from binary format to XML:

```bash
cd ~/Dekstop
cp ~/Library/Preferences/com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist ./
plutil -convert xml1 com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist
```

Make your edits (make sure the syntax is correct) and convert the XML config back into binary format:

```bash
nano com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist
plutil -convert binary1 com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist
```

Replace the original file with your edited copy:

```bash
cp com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist ~/Library/Preferences/
```

*Rebooting is required to make it work.* (Assuming you also didn‘t make any mistakes while editing the file.)

A pre-made trackpad configuration file with tap to click is [provided](/Library/Preferences/com.apple.AppleMultitouchTrackpad.plist "Trackpad config") and should suit most users well. Copy it to `~/Library/Preferences` replacing the original if you can’t bother editing your own.

### Filling Your System Information

The final step to setting up your new hackintosh laptop is generating unique serial number and system UUID. You can skip this step if you don‘t plan to use App store or connect with Apple, otherwise it is required to make iCloud or iMessage to work.

First, you need to choose the Mac SMBIOS product name that resembles your hardware most closely. For this laptop model it would be `MacBookPro8,1`. If you opted to upgrade your ProBook with quad-core CPU (against [my advice]()), `MacBookPro8,2` would be a preferred choice, but see a note below for USB port mapping adjustment. Now you can use `macserial` tool from OpenCore utilities to generate serials (`SystemSerialNumber` and `MLB`, or motherboard serial number):

```bash
./macserial -m 'MacBookPro8,1' -n 1
```

The system serial number you generated must be reported as “invalid” or “not found” on Apple [support coverage](https://checkcoverage.apple.com/ "Serial number check") page. If it‘s valid, it means `macserial` somehow generated a number that belongs to an actual produced Mac, and you must generate another serial and check it again.

Next, find out your ethernet adapter MAC address and strip it of `:` characters, – this would be your `ROM`:

```bash
ifconfig
```

Encode your `ROM` value in Base64:

```bash
echo AABBCCXXYYZZ | base64
```

Finally, generate the `SystemUUID` for your ProBook:

```bash
uuidgen
```

Now we can fill this information in `config.plist` (`PlatformInfo/Generic`):

```xml
    <key>Generic</key>
    <dict>
      <key>AdviseFeatures</key>
      <false/>
      <key>MLB</key>
      <string>M0000000000000001</string>
      <key>MaxBIOSVersion</key>
      <false/>
      <key>ProcessorType</key>
      <integer>0</integer>
      <key>ROM</key>
      <data>ABCDEF==</data>
      <key>SpoofVendor</key>
      <true/>
      <key>SystemMemoryStatus</key>
      <string>Auto</string>
      <key>SystemProductName</key>
      <string>MacBookPro8,1</string>
      <key>SystemSerialNumber</key>
      <string>W00000000001</string>
      <key>SystemUUID</key>
      <string>XXXXXXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXXXXXXXXXX</string>
    </dict>
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> If you change your SMBIOS name for any reason `USBMap.kext` must be adjusted because it snapshots SMBIOS at the time of creation and depends on it. Open `USBMap.kext/Contents/Info.plist` in a plain text editor and find and replace all instances of `MacBookPro8,1` with SMBIOS name of your choice.

### Firefox Not Starting on Monterey

Add `ipc_control_port_options=0` to your OpenCore `boot-args` config section:

```xml
        <key>boot-args</key>
        <string>-no_compat_check amfi_get_out_of_my_way=1 amfi=0x80 ipc_control_port_options=0</string>
```
