HD 3000 Issues
--------------

Unfortunately, Intel HD 3000 isn’t exactly the best fit for a hackintosh system. But being on a laptop you don’t have much choice about it. There are couple things you need to be aware of.

### Graphical Glitches

Intel HD 3000 on non-Apple hardware is known to be plagued by graphical artifacts. They can occur even with 8GB+ of RAM installed and are manifested in the form of grey lines or blocks suddenly popping around. Most annoyingly, the system eventually freezes and becomes completely unresponsive, except mouse cursor still moving on the screen.

Unfortunately, there’s no working fix for this issue and the only way to recover is a hard system reset.

### VRAM Patch

With HD 3000 it is possible to change the maximum amount of video ram macOS allocates for the GPU. The patch must be applied manually by hex-editing `AppleIntelSNBGraphicsFB.kext` (“Sandy Bridge graphics framebuffer”). Additionally, the `AppleIntelHD3000Graphics` kext `Contents/Info.plist` has to be [modified](https://github.com/ubihazard/macos-scripts/tree/main/Scripts#root-patching "Root patching guide") to complete the patch:

```xml
      <key>VRAMOverride</key>
      <integer>0</integer>
      <key>VRAMSize</key>
      <integer>1536</integer>
```

Open the `AppleIntelSNBGraphicsFB.kext/Contents/MacOS/AppleIntelSNBGraphicsFB` in a binary hexadecimal editor and patch it according to your installed RAM amount and the tables below.

If you got 8 GB of system RAM:

| **VRAM size** | Hex find   | Hex replace | Base64 find | Base64 replace
| ------------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- | --------------
| **768**       | d000000020 | d000000030  | 0AAAACA=    | 0AAAADA=
| **1024**      | d000000020 | d000000040  | 0AAAACA=    | 0AAAAEA=
| **1536**      | d000000020 | d000000060  | 0AAAACA=    | 0AAAAGA=

For 4 GB of system RAM (not recommended):

| **VRAM size** | Hex find   | Hex replace | Base64 find | Base64 replace
| ------------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- | --------------
| **512**       | d000000018 | d000000020  | 0AAAABg=    | 0AAAACA=
| **768**       | d000000018 | d000000030  | 0AAAABg=    | 0AAAADA=
| **1024**      | d000000018 | d000000040  | 0AAAABg=    | 0AAAAEA=

The provided values are for High Sierra version of the kext. Don’t forget to [rebuild the kernel cache](https://github.com/ubihazard/macos-scripts/tree/main/Scripts#rebuild-kernel-cache "Kernel cache rebuild guide") after the patch and then reboot to test your changes.
